TRAINERS METHODOLOGY - D19

CONDUCT COMPETENCY ASSESSMENT

Steps in conducting assessment:
-Establish the context and purpose of assessment
-Plan and prepare evidence-gathering process
-Prepare the candidate
-Collect the evidence and ake the assessment decision
-Provide feedback on the assessment


Establish the context and purpose of assessment
The assessor must:
>Familiarize self with the Qualification and Units of Competency to be assessed
>Ensure that the assessment site complies with the relevant Occupational Health Standard requirements
>Ensure that assessment resources are available
>Complete set of safe and functional equipment and tools
>Complete set of supplies and materials
>Personal Proective Equipment
>Assessor's Guide and Rating Sheets


Plan and prepare evidence-gathering process
The assessor shall:
-Check and receive Assessment Package composed of the following from the TESDA Representative:
>Appointment LEtter
>Assessor's Guide
>Rating Sheets
>Competency Assessment REsults Summary (CARS)
>Specific Instructions to the Candidate


Prepare the candidate
The assessor shall:
-Check attendance and identity of the candidates and collect admission slips
-Instruct the candidates to sign on the Attendance Sheet
-Conduct Orientation on candidates
  >Purpose: to check candidate's readiness for assessment
  >Qualification for assessment
  >Assessment and certification arrangement


????

10 Salient Points to be Discussed discussed during...??? (p0tek!!!!)
1.????
2.????
3./????
4. Assessment PRocedures to be Undertaken
  -Methods of Assessment
    >Written Test (depending on Qualification)
    >Demonstration & Oral Questioning
5. Allowable/reasonable adjustments - it may include:
  >Candidate's language, literacy, numeracy capability
  >Considerations regarding medical conditions
  >Considerations relating to cultural beliefs, traditional practices, religious observance
  >Considerations relating to age or gender
  >Adjustment to the physical environment or venue
  >Provision of personal support services like interpreter
6. Do's and Donts of  the Assessor inside the AC
??????
7. Legal and Ethical Responsibilities
  >Occupational health and safety requirements (Ex. Wearing of proper PPE, handwashin)
  >Free consent of candidates
  >Integrity of the Assessor
  >Adherence to the quality systems, policies and procedures of the workplace
  >Confidentiality - not divulging information before, during assessment and after assessment
      Reason: To protect both assessor and the candidate's dignity, integrity, and credibility
      Forms: Assessment PAckage - to avoid leakage
              Assessment Process
              Assessment Result - Competent ot Not Yet Competent
  >Transparent reporting and recording of Assessment Process
8. Right & Appeal System
9. Issuance (E-Certificate)
10. Re-assessment policies and procedures when anytime as long as you already prepared to the assessment
    -2nd re-assessment... assessor will recommend to refresher course.



Collect the Evidence and make the assessment decision
The assessor shal:
-Provide the candidates with all the materials, tools and equipment.... (FUCK!!!!)
-
-
-
-


Bases of Assessment Decision/Evaluating Evidences (Written and Oral Questioning)
-Rules of Evidence
-Dimensions of Competency
-Evidence REquirements
  >address the critical aspects of the competence, underpinning knowledge and skills. It matches the requirements of the elements and performance criteria (Evidence Plan)
-Corroboration among the Evidences


?????

?????


Apporaches / Ways of providing feedback
Oral Quesitoning
- (AH SHIT !!!!!)

Effective ways of Providing Feedback
-Start by asking the candidate to judge how well he or she performed.... (p0tq!!!!)


?????STEP????

STEP 6 - Record and REport the assessment result

Accomplish CARS
(PUCHA AMAN !!!!!)


P0TANGNA TAMA NA NGA, BAGSAK NA NGA!!!!
