TESDA TRAINERS METHODOLOGY - D14


Competency-based Training Delivery focuses on the following:
-CBT Delivery Framework
-CBT versus Traditional Approach


Feedback
-a dialouge between people which reflects back how another person sees someone else bahavior or performance. 
-As people we get feedback from the way people react to us.

How to discuss and give feedback:
-By using the sandwich technique method:
1st/Top layer- positive/strong points on trainee's performance during the demonstration of the task.
2nd/Middle Layer- giving contrstructive critisism or instead of stressing the weak/bad points, the trainer will just be giving the areas for improvment
3rd/Bottom Layer - positive approach in giving suggestions / recommendations


Monitoring Tools in Facilitating Training Sessions
Progress Chart                  |      ACHIEVEMENT CHART
                                |
One of the monitoring tools     |      One of the monitoring 
where in the trainee already    |      tools where in trainee
accomplished various activities |      performs only basic activity
(written or demo) in all the
learning outcomes.



Monitoring Tools in SWBL
Record Book                     |      Trainee Progress Sheet
                                |
This monitoring tool is kept    |      This is also a monitoring sheet for 
by the trainee but the          |      industry training. It is however kept by
supervisor signs the TRB for    |      the industry coordinator as of the
every accomplishedment he has   |      trainee's accomplishment reflected from
within the training period      |      the TRB. This monitor is accomplished
                                       during the monitoring vists.


Facilitating Training Sessions
-Pre-assessment
-Orientation
-Training
-Monitoring
-Evaluation


The Competency Based Training Procedures

  Delivery and Evaluation Activities

  A. Pre-training activities
    1. Construct pre-assessment instruments
    2. Prepare TNA instruments
    3. Prepare session plan
    4. Develop CBLM for your qualification
    5. Layout your workshop by workstation following the CBT principles
    6. Organize training resources
    7. Monitoring of attendance


Orientation about the qualification or training program
-Use of CBLM
-Training Methods
-Assessment arrangements/Methods
-Monitoring Tools


Focus Group Discussion
  The purpose of focus group discussion is to gain knowledge about a particular topic or need by interviewing a group of people
disrectly affected by the issue. Focus group data can be used to collect information for many purposes, such as conducting a
needs assessment or evaluating program.

  The minutes of meeting template is used here regarding group discussion.

